D-0002: Outbound Forwarder Active Directory DNS
===============================================

This document outlines the strategy deployed for enabling instances deployed into EC2 to natively join Active Directory domains, both hosted in AWS (as customer-managed EC2 instances) and hosted within the customer network.

First, it is necessary to understand that the primary mechanism that modern Windows machines identify Domain Controllers when attempting to join a given domain using DNS.  Specifically, a DNS request is sent which is expected to be resolved by the Active Directory Domain Controllers serving in their DNS role.  

The more typical approach to achieve this integration in AWS is to change the DHCP options set, to indicate that all DNS requests be sent to the Active Directory Domain Controllers.  Active Directory is then configured to forward NON AD DNS requests to the Route53 namespace servers.  This approach is outlined [here](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/how-to-set-up-dns-resolution-between-on-premises-networks-and-aws-using-aws-directory-service-and-microsoft-active-directory/) in detail.

This implementation strategy carries a few drawbacks.  First, the existing Active Directory Forest must be modified as described above.  Second, the Active Directory Forest becomes a runtime dependency for all AWS DNS resolution.

The alternative solution deployed in this solution involves the use of a [Route53 Outbound Forwarder](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/resolver-forwarding-outbound-queries.html) and corresponding rules.  In a nutshell, this retains the default AWS behavior of Route53 being the primary DNS resolution solution.  The specific Active Directory DNS name is associated with an Outbound Forwarder that sends JUST THOSE requests to Active Directory.  

With this strategy, if Active Directory is no longer accessible, only the machines that are domain joined would be affected.

The core approach is outlined [here](https://medium.com/@mda590/an-update-to-hybrid-dns-for-the-enterprise-on-aws-introducing-route-53-resolver-for-hybrid-cloud-74e55d4e67a2) in detail.
