D-0001: Split DNS
=================

This document outlines the split DNS design strategy, enabling an AWS environment to be deployed and integrated into an existing DNS topology.

In this design approach, two independent Route53 Hosted Zones are created, one private (meaning it is only provided to devices and machines hosted in AWS) and the other public (meaning it is published to the internet).

In the simplest deployment, both of these Hosted Zones are associated with the same name (i.e. `example.com`).  Requests originating from within the AWS VPC will first attempt resolution against the private zone.  If that fails, public resolution will be attempted.

Deployment of the public zone is insufficient to enable public DNS resolution to operate effectively.  Instead, the owner of the root domain (i.e. `example.com`) must delegate resolution of the associated hosted zone with the provisioned Route53 namespace servers.  The correct namespace servers may be identified by examining the Route53 public hosted zone entry created.

Note that the public and private zones are not necessarily *required* to match.  If an alternate public Hosted Zone name is used (i.e. `dev.aws.example.com`), CNAME entries must be created in the authoritative DNS forwarding the desired domain to the public Route53 Hosted Zone.  

For example, in this deployment scenario an external request for `www.example.com` would resolve (via a CNAME entry) to `www.dev.aws.example.com`.  The authoratitive DNS server would then correctly indicate that Route53 is authoritative for `*.dev.aws.example.com` and direct the request accordingly.  Route53 would then respond with the correct IP address for that domain.

In either deployment scenario, the CloudFormation templates are designed to use the PRIVATE domain (`example.com`) as the correct DNS root, for certificates, naming, etc.  So, even if the external DNS entry `www.dev.aws.example.com` is provisioned in Route53, the certificate would be provisioned and associated with `www.example.com`. 

The reason for this behavior is to allow easier integration if required with existing DNS topologies where forwarding of entire root namespaces is undesirable, but retention of Route53 DNS features is still required. 
